# Elastos Blockchain Consensus

## PoW + DPoS

Elastos employs a dual consensus mechanism to secure and update its blockchain. The main component of its consensus mechanism is called merged-mining (AuxPoW), though it uses a secondary component called Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) as well. DPoS depends on a democratically nominated assembly of nodes to vet for valid blocks before posting them to a blockchain. Merged-mining, on the other hand, is a method of securing one blockchain by utilizing the mining efforts conducted on a separate blockchain. In order to successfully implement merged-mining, two related blockchains must use the same consensus mechanism. Thus, Elastos has a hybrid consensus mechanism of AuxPoW+DPoS for its main blockchain where each block is packaged by miners and then signed by DPoS supernodes, thereby creating a finality to blocks which prevents the blockchain from forking. Beneath the simplicity of Elastos’ hybrid consensus mechanism lies a highly sophisticated multi-stakeholder solution which provides maximum security and optimal network decentralization.

The miners who package blocks are actually bitcoin miners who merge-mine both BTC and ELA simultaneously. This means that Elastos is able to borrow massive hashpower from the Bitcoin network to secure its own. It is also noteworthy that the supernodes on Elastos are not like supernodes from other blockchain projects. On most blockchain platforms that employ DPoS consensus, the supernodes both package blocks and sign them. On Elastos however, the job of a supernode is to sign and verify the blocks. Consequently, DPoS supernodes can collectively choose to reject malicious blocks packaged by merged-miners and also provide the final stamp of validation for solved blocks - called “finality.”

## Complete decentralization of the Blockchain network

The Elastos blockchain’s DPoS consensus also works differently than a typical DPoS consensus mechanism. For Elastos, the community plays a major role in the consensus process. The PoW mining is conducted by merged-mined utilizing Bitcoin mining machines to package transactions into a block. Then, the supernodes are involved in signing each block. The community can submit different proposals to Cyber Republic and may include changes to the different consensus mechanism for new sidechains or for creating a new sidechain dedicated to a specific application. The proposal may also include the architectural change to be implemented on the main chain code. Should the proposal be accepted by the Cyber Republic Council, the supernodes upgrade to account for this change. And soon after, if any of the PoW miners fail to upgrade their client accordingly, the blocks packaged by the miners will not be accepted by the supernodes. In this way, the majority of the power is given to the Cyber Republic community rather than the miners themselves, which prevents forks from occuring in the first place.

# Merged Mining(for PoW)

## How does Merged Mining work?

In order for merged-mining to work, two conditions must be satisfied.

- Both the parent chain and auxiliary chain must use the same consensus algorithm. As follows, Elastos uses PoW with the SHA256 hashing algorithm, in alignment with Bitcoin
- The parent chain blocks must contain a field to insert arbitrary data. Rather conveniently, Bitcoin has such a field integrated into the fundamental design. In the transaction list in each Bitcoin block, the very first transaction is called the ‘coinbase’ transaction. The coinbase transaction is the transaction that issues newly minted bitcoins to the miner as a block reward for successfully mining the block. The coinbase transaction allows for a maximum input of 100 bytes of data.

## Benefits of Merged Mining

- **Merged-mining requires no extra computational power**. Therefore, it is not necessary for merged-miners to invest in more powerful hardware. Bitcoin miners can mine both Bitcoin and Elastos blocks simultaneously using the same hash power.
- **The parent chain is unaffected**. The Bitcoin blockchain is not slowed or bloated in any way by merged-mining. The only addition is a single 32 byte hash to each block, which is all but negligible.
- **Merged-mining is eco-friendly**. Bitcoin miners are already expending energy to secure the Bitcoin blockchain. Elastos leverages this expended energy, thereby limiting its own net energy requirement.
- **Merged-mining aids in securing new PoW blockchains and preventing 51% attacks**. Building a large community of miners takes time. Through merged-mining, an established blockchain with scaled adoption could bootstrap a brand new PoW blockchain by providing it with hash power. As a result, 51% attacks that would otherwise be relatively easy to execute become infeasible.
- **Merged-mining benefits both networks**. Hash power coming from both communities of miners is additive. Since a merged-miner uses its hash power for both the parent and auxiliary blockchain, the total hash power of each respective network increases.

# Supernodes(for DPoS)

## Finality of Blocks

The main issue with PoW consensus - apart from being computationally intensive - is that there is a high probability of a fork when the miner community is divided. For example, Bitcoin forked into Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash. Then, Bitcoin Cash forked further into Bitcoin ABC and Bitcoin SV. This happens whenever the community is divided and cannot reach a consensus on what features and upgrades to implement or eliminate on the blockchain.

In order to prevent such a catastrophic event, Elastos employs a hybrid consensus mechanism where the miner community must always follow the voice of the majority of the community members, as decided by democratic vote. The miners who do not follow these rules are deemed invalid, in which case the DPoS supernodes will not sign these particular blocks. By splitting up the power of packaging blocks and signing blocks into two different processes, Elastos creates an ingenious method to ensure finality in each block. In doing so, Elastos prevents any sort of fork occuring in its blockchain.

## Participation in both PoW and DPoS based sidechains

Only the on-duty arbitrator packages and signs the blocks for each sidechain. This goes for all the sidechain blocks (both PoW and DPoS sidechains). In case of a PoW sidechain, the on-duty arbitrator packages and signs blocks and sends them to the main chain for merged-mining PoW. Once confirmed, the blocks are added to their respective sidechain. In case of a DPoS sidechain, the on-duty arbitrator packages and signs blocks. For this reason, the Ethereum sidechain that has DPoS consensus can also be considered to have PoA (Proof of Authority) consensus. Every other arbitrator can verify whether the blocks packaged and signed by the on-duty arbitrator are valid. If invalid or malicious blocks are signed, that supernode will receive a punishment and will have some or all of its ELA taken and may be voted out of the supernode consensus completely, depending on the severity of the circumstance.