# Definition
## Overview

Elastos Runtime can be thought of as an App Engine or a Virtual Machine(VM). It is a sandboxed runtime environment that runs on top of an existing OS, such as Android, iOS, Windows, etc.  Dapp developers do not need to worry too much about the technical details of the layer underneath (blockchain layer). They just need to call the RT.SDK.

Building dapps becomes much easier than before. Dapp developers use ionic to develop their HTML5/javascript applications that will run on trinity browser. Elastos Runtime runs on the user’s device to achieve a “reliable runtime environment.” Runtime guarantees digital assets will run under blockchain control, providing users with the ability to consume and invest in digital content.

## Layman’s definition

A runtime system is the bridge between hardware and software in that it translates code into machine code. Elastos Runtime is the environment that code can run on–much like an encyclopedia or a library about a new world in which digital assets are run under the blockchain.  Elastos Runtime, essentially, is what decides what to do with the instructions in a code.

# Advantages of Elastos Runtime

Because Elastos Runtime is a core component of Elastos Browser(aka Trinity Browser), it makes sense to talk about the advantages of the entire framework together.

- **Simplicity via Singular API**: Runtime integrates all the services that Elastos provides and combines them into a singular framework for DApp developers to use. For this reason, DApp developers only need to write their application using ionic javascript framework and have only one set of Runtime APIs to manage. The APIs can be used to interact with Mainchain, DID Sidechain, Token Sidechain, ETH Sidechain, NEO Sidechain, Elastos Carrier, Elastos Hive, or any other component of the Elastos ecosystem.
- **Versatility via Multi-Platform Support**: Because Elastos Browser is supported on both Android and iOS, DApp developers only need to develop their application using one set of code in order to run on both platforms. In the future, if Elastos Browser will be supported on Windows, Mac, and Linux, it will provide tremendous versatility for DApp developers. In other words, developers can easily develop their DApps using the same set of APIs for Elastos Browser and their DApp will run on all platforms which Elastos Browser supports.
- **Security via Sandbox Mechanism**: Runtime provides a sandbox mechanism in which all DApps run. Most importantly, it provides sandbox isolation, network isolation, and digital rights management so DApp developers don’t have to deal with tedious issues on a day-to-day basis. From here, Elastos DApps interact with the outside world via Elastos Carrier, which by itself is an end-to-end encrypted peer-to-peer network without central servers, thus creating a completely secure ecosystem-wide DApp Runtime Environment.
- **DApp Security and Data Integrity Via Decentralized DApp Distribution Channel**: Much like Android or iOS, Trinity will manage its own distribution channel. Currently, developers submit to the Android and iOS Apps Stores to have their Apps deployed to the respective platforms. This process leaves Apps subject to the discretion of the App Stores and compromises the integrity of App data by storing it on centralized servers. The Elastos protocol is different: there is a dedicated DApp Sidechain that records the metadata for each DApp along with developer’s DID and signature while the actual DApp is stored on a decentralized storage. A DApp can only be installed on the Elastos Browser if it has been registered via the DApp Sidechain. Runtime verifies the integrity and the signature of the DApp and its developer before installing it on Elastos Browser, thus creating a decentralized process of DApp Distribution.
- **Registry Facilitation via Toolchain**: As part of the DApp management lifecycle, a Toolchain will be provided to developers to assist them in packaging their Trinity DApp using their DID and registering on the DApp Sidechain. The Toolchain represents the only DApp Trinity will let users install on their phones. This ensures that users don’t accidentally download a DApp from a developer they do not trust.
- **Security and Data Integrity via User DIDs**: All the user data and app data on Elastos Browser will be tied to a user’s DID and the data itself will be stored on a decentralized storage system or on the user’s Dropbox or personal cloud drive. Thus, when users install Trinity on a different device, they login using their DID and all their data populates automatically. This process parallels Apple’s use of the icloud drive to restore App settings and data to a new phone in a centralized format. For Trinity Browser, DIDs are used to conserve users’ data when they switch between devices without compromising the integrity of their data via decentralized data storage.