
# Elastos Blockchain Consensus

## PoW + DPoS

Elastos employs a dual consensus mechanism to secure and update its blockchain. The main component of its consensus mechanism is called merged-mining (AuxPoW), 
though it uses a secondary component called Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) as well. DPoS depends on a democratically nominated assembly of nodes to vet for 
valid blocks before posting them to a blockchain. Merged-mining, on the other hand, is a method of securing one blockchain by utilizing the mining efforts 
conducted on a separate blockchain. In order to successfully implement merged-mining, two related blockchains must use the same consensus mechanism. 

Thus, Elastos has a hybrid consensus mechanism of AuxPoW+DPoS for its main blockchain where each block is packaged by miners and then signed by DPoS supernodes, 
thereby creating a finality to blocks which prevents the blockchain from forking. Beneath the simplicity of Elastos’ hybrid consensus mechanism lies a highly 
sophisticated multi-stakeholder solution which provides maximum security and optimal network decentralization.

The miners who package blocks are actually bitcoin miners who merge-mine both BTC and ELA simultaneously. This means that Elastos is able to borrow massive 
hashpower from the Bitcoin network to secure its own. It is also noteworthy that the supernodes on Elastos are not like supernodes from other blockchain projects. 

On most blockchain platforms that employ DPoS consensus, the supernodes both package blocks and sign them. On Elastos however, the job of a supernode is to sign 
and verify the blocks. Consequently, DPoS supernodes can collectively choose to reject malicious blocks packaged by merged-miners and also provide the final stamp 
of validation for solved blocks - called “finality.”

## Complete decentralization of the Blockchain network

The Elastos blockchain’s DPoS consensus also works differently than a typical DPoS consensus mechanism. For Elastos, the community plays a major role in the 
consensus process. The PoW mining is conducted by merged-mined utilizing Bitcoin mining machines to package transactions into a block. Then, the supernodes 
are involved in signing each block. The community can submit different proposals to Cyber Republic and may include changes to the different consensus mechanism 
for new sidechains or for creating a new sidechain dedicated to a specific application. The proposal may also include the architectural change to be implemented 
on the main chain code. Should the proposal be accepted by the Cyber Republic Council, the supernodes upgrade to account for this change. And soon after, if any
 of the PoW miners fail to upgrade their client accordingly, the blocks packaged by the miners will not be accepted by the supernodes. In this way, the majority 
 of the power is given to the Cyber Republic community rather than the miners themselves, which prevents forks from occuring in the first place.
