
# Merged Mining(for PoW)

## How does Merged Mining work?

In order for merged-mining to work, two conditions must be satisfied.

- Both the parent chain and auxiliary chain must use the same consensus algorithm. As follows, Elastos uses PoW with the SHA256 hashing algorithm, in alignment with Bitcoin
- The parent chain blocks must contain a field to insert arbitrary data. Rather conveniently, Bitcoin has such a field integrated into the fundamental design. 
In the transaction list in each Bitcoin block, the very first transaction is called the ‘coinbase’ transaction. The coinbase transaction is the transaction 
that issues newly minted bitcoins to the miner as a block reward for successfully mining the block. The coinbase transaction allows for a maximum input of 100 bytes of data.

## Benefits of Merged Mining

- **Merged-mining requires no extra computational power**. Therefore, it is not necessary for merged-miners to invest in more powerful hardware. Bitcoin miners can mine both Bitcoin and Elastos blocks simultaneously using the same hash power.
- **The parent chain is unaffected**. The Bitcoin blockchain is not slowed or bloated in any way by merged-mining. The only addition is a single 32 byte hash to each block, which is all but negligible.
- **Merged-mining is eco-friendly**. Bitcoin miners are already expending energy to secure the Bitcoin blockchain. Elastos leverages this expended energy, thereby limiting its own net energy requirement.
- **Merged-mining aids in securing new PoW blockchains and preventing 51% attacks**. Building a large community of miners takes time. Through merged-mining, an established blockchain with scaled adoption could bootstrap a brand new PoW blockchain by providing it with hash power. As a result, 51% attacks that would otherwise be relatively easy to execute become infeasible.
- **Merged-mining benefits both networks**. Hash power coming from both communities of miners is additive. Since a merged-miner uses its hash power for both the parent and auxiliary blockchain, the total hash power of each respective network increases.
