

# Supernodes(for DPoS)

## Finality of Blocks

The main issue with PoW consensus - apart from being computationally intensive - is that there is a high probability of a fork when the miner community is divided. For example, Bitcoin forked into Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash. Then, Bitcoin Cash forked further into Bitcoin ABC and Bitcoin SV. This happens whenever the community is divided and cannot reach a consensus on what features and upgrades to implement or eliminate on the blockchain.

In order to prevent such a catastrophic event, Elastos employs a hybrid consensus mechanism where the miner community must always follow the voice of the majority of the community members, as decided by democratic vote. The miners who do not follow these rules are deemed invalid, in which case the DPoS supernodes will not sign these particular blocks. By splitting up the power of packaging blocks and signing blocks into two different processes, Elastos creates an ingenious method to ensure finality in each block. In doing so, Elastos prevents any sort of fork occuring in its blockchain.

## Participation in both PoW and DPoS based sidechains

Only the on-duty arbitrator packages and signs the blocks for each sidechain. This goes for all the sidechain blocks (both PoW and DPoS sidechains). In case of a PoW sidechain, the on-duty arbitrator packages and signs blocks and sends them to the main chain for merged-mining PoW. Once confirmed, the blocks are added to their respective sidechain. In case of a DPoS sidechain, the on-duty arbitrator packages and signs blocks. For this reason, the Ethereum sidechain that has DPoS consensus can also be considered to have PoA (Proof of Authority) consensus. Every other arbitrator can verify whether the blocks packaged and signed by the on-duty arbitrator are valid. If invalid or malicious blocks are signed, that supernode will receive a punishment and will have some or all of its ELA taken and may be voted out of the supernode consensus completely, depending on the severity of the circumstance.
